hey guys Steven from the unlocker comm
and today we're gonna do a quick
explanation of what art is and then how
to enable it on your android kitkat
device so basically right now every time
you run an android app every time you
open it it has to be compiled which
means it has to be translated from the
app code to the machine code to run on
your device this causes a tiny bit of
lag every time you open an app on your
phone which you might notice the benefit
to this though is that it takes up a lot
less storage because what happens as
soon as you open that app it compiles
all of the necessary stuff writes out
the code and then whenever you close the
app it deletes all of that code and save
space
now since storage has become a lot less
expensive and a lot easier to put into
devices google has been working for the
past two years on their own runtime on a
new version what this does and it's
called art will allow you to basically
every time you install the app it
compiles all of the necessary code right
there and then which makes the install
time a tiny bit longer but every time
you open the app it's much more
instantaneous you don't have to compile
it every time you open right now they've
launched this and they put it into
Android 4.4 but it's kind of an
experimental thing and it's in the
settings and you have to turn it on in
order to try it out the plan probably is
to put this into you know Android 4.5 or
5.0 or whatever the new version will be
as kind of a standard but in the
meantime they allow you to enable it so
you can test it out and see what you
think
I've been using it for a little bit and
it seems that most apps work just fine
and there is a slight difference in the
lag time and it does work a little bit
better so you want to try it out and you
have an Android 4.4 device or above
here's how to do that okay so first up
pull down the notification bar tap on
the icon up there then settings then
scroll all the way down to about phone
scroll the way down and keep tapping
build number until it tells you that you
are a developer then it back then tap on
the new developer options that appear to
bub about about Phone make sure they're
on and then go to select run time click
use art click OK and the device will
reboot
okay and then once it does it will have
to optimize all of the apps so wait for
it to finish doing that and finally
it'll reboot come to the home screen you
can start opening apps and you'll notice
that they open a bit quicker and there
you go
I hope that helps some of you and if
you'd like to check out some of our
other tips and tricks or other how-to
videos feel free to follow me on Twitter
Facebook Google+ or subscribe to our
YouTube channel